Brendan Wenzel: The Wizard of Perspectives

Getting into Brendan Wenzel's eclectic mind is difficult. I am sitting here with his four books – i) They All Saw A Cat, ii) Inside Cat, iii) A Stone Sat Still and iv) Hello Hello. All are illustrated and written by himself. I am deliberately mentioning illustrations first as clearly the illustrations drive the story and not the other way round.

Let's start with first two story books – They All Saw A Cat and Inside Cat. Looking at these two books together is fun and helps you understand a little bit of Wenzel's way of thinking. In the first book Brendan shows how different creatures view one cat as it is taking a walk. Each animal sees the cat differently based on its relationship to the cat, the distance to the cat and how they see the overall world. It is a 2017 Caldecott Honor Book.

Inside Cat is the story of a cat wandering in a house and looking through the window to get some information and making sense of how the world works. Brendan made a house look like a map or a blueprint in the shades of grey and colourful illustrations behind the windows to help us enter the cat's mind. It also helps in bringing the difference between inside and outside world. The cat's own imagination about the outside world is the third dimension.

Both the books are hilarious, talk about curiosity, observation, and make you think from perspective of the animals. For cat lovers these are a must.

Hello Hello is yet another delightful masterwork. It shows the chain of animals linked together by at least one common trait – colour, size, wings, tails, or some behavioral norm. It is a beautiful way of celebrating diversity of the animal world with some unifying thread.

A Stone Sat Still is another masterpiece. An ordinary rock is no more ordinary. Though the stone is sitting still, everything around it is changing fast and the stone is playing many roles simultaneously to different animals such as a home for some and a landmark for someone else. Various animals and flora depicted in relation with the stone are also changing along with the seasons and the timings. What a wonderful way to expand your horizons from different perspectives!

Brendan mainly works on animal and nature stories. His affection for animals comes through his glorious illustrations. Brendan in one of his interviews says that every time we do a drawing, we are sharing our perspective. When not working on his books for children, he helps some groups to conserve wild places and creatures. He believes that his experience of living in different countries has given him privilege to catch a glimpse of the world through different lenses which naturally come out in his books. His favorite mantra is "There are no bad drawings".

Books mentioned: They All Saw A Cat · Inside Cat · Hello Hello · A Stone Sat Still
